the story of Joel and Ellie is a journey
not soon to be forgotten
and in this episode we explore 10 things
about the last of us the original pitch
for the Last of Us was called mankind in
this version all of the infected would
have been women Ellie would have been
the only female to be immune and Joel's
protecting her in order to bring her to
the lab to develop a vaccine the idea
was scrapped after several female
naughty dog employees voice criticism
and concerns over the concept Neil
druckmann the creative director has said
that the reason it failed is because it
was a misogynistic idea at one point
during the game's development Naughty
Dog was put under pressure to change
Ellie's positioning from the front of
the cover art to the background it
suggested that this was because of the
misconception that if you have a female
character on the cover the game will
sell less Naughty Dog refused they also
had to specifically request female focus
testers for the game because they
refused to let the game be tested only
by men the cause of the apocalypse in
the Last of Us is actually based on fact
the concept for the game arose after
watching a segment of the BBC nature
documentary planet Earth which
documented a cordyceps fungus infected
and where the fungus takes over its
brain and produces growths from its head
the idea that the fungus can infect
humans became the initial idea for the
game Tessa's character was changed
during the development of The Last of Us
in an early version of the script
Joel betrayed tests causing her to
follow him across the country seeking
revenge eventually she would capture and
torture Joel and Ellie who would have
been more innocent never having killed
before would have to shoot her to save
Joel early in development Joel's last
name was given as Miller and Ellie's as
Williams but Neil druckmann revealed
that the decision was made to cut all
last names from the final product these
names are still listed in the Japanese
manual however also Joel was originally
called Ethan but it was thought it
sounded too much like Nathan so it was
changed the Joel both names came from
the famous directors the Coen brothers
each names Joel and Ethan respectively
the ish subplot discovered from a
multitude of notes in the suburbs
chapter of the game is inspired by
George are Stewart's 1949 novel earth
abides in it issue word Williams aka ish
returns to civilization after spending
an extended time as remote
archaeological camp to find that almost
all of humanity has been wiped out by a
virus after the death of his son each
gives up all hope of reestablishing as
society that you fondly remembers before
the virus outbreak the game scenery
setting was partially influenced by Alan
Wiseman's book the world without us a
nonfiction book about what would happen
to the natural and built environment if
humans suddenly disappeared other
literary and film inspirations include
the Coen brothers No Country for Old Men
and True Grit Cormac McCarthy's film
adaptation of the road and the TV series
The Walking Dead it was revealed in a
trailer that Ellie had been redesigned
to greater resemble voice actress Ashley
Johnson's appearance and personality
Neil druckmann the game's creative
director spoke of the change saying
after delving further into the game's
narrative over the past few months we
decided to modify Ellie's model to
better reflect Ashley's personality and
also to resemble a slightly younger teen
more fitting to the story we're happy
with the final result shown in the
cinematic we've released today and we're
hoping fans like her - Ellie also has a
scar on her right eyebrow when asked in
an interview about the scar Druckman
stated that there is a story behind a
scar but he won't share the story yet
The Last of Us has a cool Easter egg
from uncharted 3 in the chapter escaped
the city there's a bar in this part of
the game that on close inspection you
might recognize from the opening of
uncharted 3 some parts have been changed
to accommodate the area design in the
Last of Us but the main bar section is
the same asset from uncharted 3 to top
it off the bar is called O'Sullivan's a
direct reference to victor sullivan
nathan drake's partner-in-crime The Last
of Us has sold over 4 million copies
worldwide selling nearly 2 million in
North America alone it was the fastest
selling ps3 game of 2013 prior to GTA
5's release and holds a Metacritic score
of 95 out of 100 and that's 10 things
about the last of us thanks for watching
I hope you learn something and don't
forget to like this episode and
subscribe for more from the series
you